source/posts/20240609-2024Countries.md, before:

```
tags: thoughts
```

# Countries

- Ireland: Éire, a goddess in Irish mythology, Proto-Indo-European root *h2uer, flowing water

- France: Francia, realm of the Franks, influenced by Roman,  Old French franc ("free, noble, sincere"), and ultimately from the Medieval Latin word francus ("free, exempt from service; freeman, Frank"), and from Proto-Germanic *frankô (“javelin”), ultimately from Proto-Indo-European *preng- (“pole, stalk”). and Gallia(milk, powerful people) / Gaul(Proto-Germanic *walhaz, "foreigner, Romanized person")

- Italy: Italói, inhabitants of the land of calves, extreme south of the Italian Peninsula, influenced by ancient Greek

- Spain: Español, Hispania, Rabbits, influenced by Phoenician/Basque

- Portugal: Portugal, Portus Calae, influenced by Roman, “warm port”, Orange

- Poland: Polska, Field, lęda, Proto-Slavic and Proto-Indo-European. Lech, Czech and Rus(in Russian version it's Czech, Lech and Rus), once influenced by Bohemia

- Crech: Čech comes from Slavic, Bohemia, Boiohaemum(Tacitus), "home of the Boii", Boius, perhaps literally "warriors" + Proto-Germanic *haimaz "home/world",  influenced by Roman/Franks

- Germany: Deutsch(people, distinguish the language of the common people from Latin and its Romance descendants)land, influenced by Franks/Roman

- Russia: Россия, Русь,Rus(influenced by Byzantine Greek),the men who row, radiant light

- Ukraine: Україна, borderland, influenced by Principality of Pereyaslavl(Kievan Rus)

- United Kingdom: Great Britain, Britannia, Πρεττανική (Prettanikē), *Pretani being a Celtic word(in Greek) that might mean "the painted ones" or "the tattooed folk", influenced by Roman/Celtic(Greek)/France

- America: Named by Martin Waldseemüller, German who used the Latin version of Italian explorer Amerigo Vespucci's first name

- United States of (America): influenced by English

Commit message:

The orders...by time and by the pressure to try to be objective. English's Greek origin? Never mind, that's what does history look like maybe. After all, I'm using English.

source/posts/20240609-2024Countries.md, after:

```
tags: thoughts
```

# Countries

- Ireland: Éire, a goddess in Irish mythology, Proto-Indo-European root *h2uer, flowing water

- France: Francia, realm of the Franks, influenced by Roman,  Old French franc ("free, noble, sincere"), and ultimately from the Medieval Latin word francus ("free, exempt from service; freeman, Frank"), and from Proto-Germanic *frankô (“javelin”), ultimately from Proto-Indo-European *preng- (“pole, stalk”). and Gallia(milk, powerful people) / Gaul(Proto-Germanic *walhaz, "foreigner, Romanized person")

- Italy: Italói, inhabitants of the land of calves, extreme south of the Italian Peninsula, influenced by ancient Greek

- Spain: Español, Hispania, Rabbits, influenced by Phoenician/Basque

- Portugal: Portugal, Portus Calae, influenced by Roman, “warm port”, Orange

- Poland: Polska, Field, lęda, Proto-Slavic and Proto-Indo-European. Lech, Czech and Rus(in Russian version it's Czech, Lech and Rus), once influenced by Bohemia

- Crech: Čech comes from Slavic, Bohemia, Boiohaemum(Tacitus), "home of the Boii", Boius, perhaps literally "warriors" + Proto-Germanic *haimaz "home/world",  influenced by Roman/Franks

- Germany: Deutsch(people, distinguish the language of the common people from Latin and its Romance descendants)land, influenced by Franks/Roman

- Russia: Россия, Русь,Rus(influenced by Byzantine Greek),the men who row, radiant light

- Ukraine: Україна, borderland, influenced by Principality of Pereyaslavl(Kievan Rus)

- United Kingdom: Great Britain, Britannia, Πρεττανική (Prettanikē), *Pretani being a Celtic word(in Greek) that might mean "the painted ones" or "the tattooed folk", influenced by Roman/Celtic(Greek)/France

- Canada: the name “Canada” likely comes from the Huron-Iroquois word “kanata,” meaning “village” or “settlement”. In 1535, two Aboriginal youths told French explorer Jacques Cartier about the route to kanata; they were actually referring to the village of Stadacona, the site of the present-day City of Québec.

- Australia： The name Australia (pronounced /əˈstreɪliə/ in Australian English) is derived from the Latin australis, meaning "southern", and specifically from the hypothetical Terra Australis postulated in pre-modern geography.

- America: Named by Martin Waldseemüller, German used the Latin version of Italian explorer Amerigo Vespucci's first name

- United States of (America): influenced by English
