source/posts/20240622-0409人種差別.md, before:

```
tags: 罪, non-math, Persian(RTL/gender), top, genocide
```

<!--
# 人種差別/인종 차별

My language is the most different language with English, so English or closer people say it's hard. Must be hard like the native American languages.

English is so simple for me.

They even don't consider the Korean.

They prefer words starting with J.

They don't learn any languages besides Germanic-Latin language family, so they don't know the languages can be composed in any way.
-->

<!--
Truth hurts the fucking Europeans and English with 26 letters.

# Sexism

About She(True sex equality should have the same he/she? like the older LHN? Finnish? Hungary, Hawaii? Even Turkey/Persian?):

Nihon firstly used the word "彼女" in East Asia.

Hanguel(Korean) started to use 그녀 after the National Liberation Day (Aug. 15,1945). Which is the 彼女 in the Nihon.

Modern Hanguel usually uses the original 그 to show the he/she.

In Latin(Chinese), it's starting with the 他(The beginning of LHN), and then we have the 他/她.

S.Korea(Hanguel) seems like it never ranks 1st in English.

이창호

One possible translations according to history: Nihon, Hanguel, Latin(Chinese, it's difficult to translate)

Delayed Justice on Nihon probably.

OR Boxers Insurrection, its Chinese name is 义和团运动. 义(noble justice, individual), 和(yamato, peace), 团(union)

This world should not be only managed by the ENGLISH.
-->

# Extinct

“The Indigenous languages of the Americas are not all related to each other; instead, they are classified into a hundred or so language families (including a large number of language isolates), as well as a number of extinct languages that are unclassified due to the lack of information on them.”

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indigenous_languages_of_the_Americas

From the map of human language families, we can see that the farther civilizations away from UK and are not extinct, which are more possible to be divided by more language families. So they don't ask the viewpoints from the different native people(After all, due to survivor bias, linguists are centered at UK. Or nobody dies from hunger, because they don't talk and surf the internet).

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Language_family#/media/File:Primary_Human_Languages_Improved_Version.png

We also can see Spain and Spanish former colonies are easier to keep more DIFFERENT languages(Basque and so on).

https://w3techs.com/technologies/overview/content_language

<!--
A TRUE language familiy centered at Asia, should be now at least Turkic language familiy + CJK + SEA + Middle East, North Africa, part of Slavic language familiy + India, Persian even Latin. But it's, eh, humanity subject.
I can't see any similarities between Persian and English at all.

Persian is very similar with Japanese/Korean in grammars and so on. RTL is used in the ancient JKC, and ancient/modern JKC doesn't have gender(and Hawaiian(ハワイ州 + サハリン州), Hungarian,Finnish,Turkish). 彼/彼女
-->

# Wonder

"The Newark Earthworks in Newark and Heath, Ohio, consist of three sections of preserved earthworks: the Great Circle Earthworks, the Octagon Earthworks, and the Wright Earthworks. This complex, built by the Hopewell culture between 100 BCE and 400 CE, contains the largest earthen enclosures in the world, and was about 3,000 acres in total extent. Less than 10 percent of the total site has been preserved since European-American settlement; this area contains a total of 206 acres (83 ha).", "In 1982 researchers from Earlham College in Richmond, Indiana concluded that the complex was a lunar observatory, designed to track motions of the moon, including the northernmost point of the 18.6-year cycle of the lunar orbit."

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newark_Earthworks

And the oldest American wonder involving astronomy(ChatGPT): https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chanquillod

# Conclusion

The smoothest(rectangle) state lines in the modern United States is also a wonder. "The colonial population grew rapidly, eclipsing Native American populations."

Declaration of Independence:

"He has excited domestic Insurrections amongst us, and has endeavoured to bring on the Inhabitants of our Frontiers, the merciless Indian Savages, whose known Rule of Warfare, is an undistinguished Destruction, of all Ages, Sexes and Conditions."

----

There are no Indian Republics or Autonomous Regions in the fucking USA although they arrived that land in only 1800s.

Pirates kill people cleanly, it's their own home, and it's the least racist (excluding original/native/brown/yellow people).

But only the equality of the whites and their lapdogs(Black, so on).

Israel should use the fucking USA as a reference of justice.

<!--
# ALERT

REMEMBER THANKSGIVING and Aztec Quetzalcoatl!

-->

Commit message:

Some people don't even show signs of having lived

source/posts/20240622-0409人種差別.md, after:

```
tags: 罪, non-math, Persian(RTL/gender), top, genocide
```

<!--
# 人種差別/인종 차별

My language is the most different language with English, so English or closer people say it's hard. Must be hard like the native American languages.

English is so simple for me.

They even don't consider the Korean.

They prefer words starting with J.

They don't learn any languages besides Germanic-Latin language family, so they don't know the languages can be composed in any way.
-->

<!--
Truth hurts the fucking Europeans and English with 26 letters.

# Sexism

About She(True sex equality should have the same he/she? like the older LHN? Finnish? Hungary, Hawaii? Even Turkey/Persian?):

Nihon firstly used the word "彼女" in East Asia.

Hanguel(Korean) started to use 그녀 after the National Liberation Day (Aug. 15,1945). Which is the 彼女 in the Nihon.

Modern Hanguel usually uses the original 그 to show the he/she.

In Latin(Chinese), it's starting with the 他(The beginning of LHN), and then we have the 他/她.

S.Korea(Hanguel) seems like it never ranks 1st in English.

이창호

One possible translations according to history: Nihon, Hanguel, Latin(Chinese, it's difficult to translate)

Delayed Justice on Nihon probably.

OR Boxers Insurrection, its Chinese name is 义和团运动. 义(noble justice, individual), 和(yamato, peace), 团(union)

This world should not be only managed by the ENGLISH.
-->

# Extinct

“The Indigenous languages of the Americas are not all related to each other; instead, they are classified into a hundred or so language families (including a large number of language isolates), as well as a number of extinct languages that are unclassified due to the lack of information on them.”

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Indigenous_languages_of_the_Americas

From the map of human language families, we can see that the farther civilizations away from UK and are not extinct, which are more possible to be divided by more language families. So they don't ask the viewpoints from the different native people(After all, due to survivor bias, linguists are centered at UK. Or nobody dies from hunger, because they don't talk and surf the internet).

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Language_family#/media/File:Primary_Human_Languages_Improved_Version.png

We also can see Spain and Spanish former colonies are easier to keep more DIFFERENT languages(Basque and so on).

https://w3techs.com/technologies/overview/content_language

<!--
A TRUE language familiy centered at Asia, should be now at least Turkic language familiy + CJK + SEA + Middle East, North Africa, part of Slavic language familiy + India, Persian even Latin. But it's, eh, humanity subject.
I can't see any similarities between Persian and English at all.

Persian is very similar with Japanese/Korean in grammars and so on. RTL is used in the ancient JKC, and ancient/modern JKC doesn't have gender(and Hawaiian(ハワイ州 + サハリン州), Hungarian,Finnish,Turkish). 彼/彼女
-->

# Wonder

"The Newark Earthworks in Newark and Heath, Ohio, consist of three sections of preserved earthworks: the Great Circle Earthworks, the Octagon Earthworks, and the Wright Earthworks. This complex, built by the Hopewell culture between 100 BCE and 400 CE, contains the largest earthen enclosures in the world, and was about 3,000 acres in total extent. Less than 10 percent of the total site has been preserved since European-American settlement; this area contains a total of 206 acres (83 ha).", "In 1982 researchers from Earlham College in Richmond, Indiana concluded that the complex was a lunar observatory, designed to track motions of the moon, including the northernmost point of the 18.6-year cycle of the lunar orbit."

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newark_Earthworks

And the oldest American wonder involving astronomy(ChatGPT): https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chanquillod

# Conclusion

The smoothest(rectangle) state lines in the modern United States is also a wonder. "The colonial population grew rapidly, eclipsing Native American populations."

Declaration of Independence:

"He has excited domestic Insurrections amongst us, and has endeavoured to bring on the Inhabitants of our Frontiers, the merciless Indian Savages, whose known Rule of Warfare, is an undistinguished Destruction, of all Ages, Sexes and Conditions."

----

There are no Indian Republics or Autonomous Regions in the fucking USA although they arrived that land in only 1800s.

Pirates kill people cleanly, it's their own home, and it's the least racist (excluding original/native/brown/yellow people).

"Some people don't even show signs of having lived". The Russia knows the braves having lived at least.

But only the equality of the whites and their lapdogs(Black, so on).

Israel should use the fucking USA as a reference of justice.

<!--
# ALERT

REMEMBER THANKSGIVING and Aztec Quetzalcoatl!

-->
