```
tags: math, top
```

# Probility(not Measure Theory)

This article is also in English because of many reasons. In China, there's less probility theory derived from measurable space. And this article is not about the literature.

Originally the least people found interests on the basic science/mathematics, so English, English.

And the Greek alphabet is the ancestor of the Cyrillic scripts or Latin.

You know, it's about *serious* probility. But now I only have a very popular/*new* book I bought many years ago which is not very serious. And it's English.

## Basic Concepts

ZFC(NBG/Proper class,Gödel's incompleteness theorems): Classes are collections which can be defined, sets are particular classes which are relatively small and there are classes which are not sets. Collections is a notion which is expressed via both these mathematical objects, but need not be well-defined otherwise.(https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/172966/what-are-the-differences-between-class-set-family-and-collection)

extended real number line: $\overline R$, $R \cup ( -\infty, +\infty) $, $[ -\infty, +\infty]$

countable set: A set $S$ is countable if its cardinality $|S|$ is less than or equal to $\aleph _{0}$(the cardinality of the set of all natural numbers). The aleph numbers differ from the infinity (∞) commonly found in algebra and calculus, in that the alephs measure the sizes of sets, while infinity is commonly defined either as an extreme limit of the real number line (applied to a function or sequence that "diverges to infinity" or "increases without bound"), or as an extreme point of the extended real number line. 

pairwise disjoint: All $\{E_k\}_{k=1}^{\infty}$ implies that $E_k^c \in \Sigma$ 


## σ-algebra and Measure Spaces

Consider a set $X$. A $σ$–algebra $\Sigma$ of subsets of $X$ which is a class $\mu$ satisfying the following conditions:

- $\empty ∈ \Sigma$

- $\mu \in \Sigma$ then its complement $\mu^c$ is also in $\Sigma$

- if $\mu_1, \mu_2,..., \in \mu$ then $\bigcup _{k=1}^{\infty }\mu_{k} \in \mu$

The sets in $\mu$ are said to be measurable. And $(X, \Sigma)$ is a measurable space.
So class $\{\empty, X\}$ is also a $σ$–algebra.

## Measure and Probability Space

A set $X$ and a $\sigma$-algerbra $\Sigma$ over $X$. A set function $\mu$ from $\Sigma$ to $\overline R$ is called a measure if the following conditions hold:

- **Non-negativity**: For all $X \in \Sigma$, $\mu(X) \ge 0$
- **Countable additivity**($\sigma$-additivity): 
 For all countable collections $\{X_k\}_{k=1}^{\infty}$ of pairwise disjoint sets in $\Sigma$,

 $$\mu \left(\bigcup _{k=1}^{\infty }X_{k}\right)=\sum _{k=1}^{\infty }\mu (X_{k})$$

so, $\mu (E)=\mu (E\cup \varnothing )=\mu (E)+\mu (\varnothing )$
- $\mu(\empty) = 0$


If the condition of non-negativity is dropped, and $\mu$ takes on at most one of the values of $\pm∞$ then $\mu$ is called a signed measure.

The pair $(X,\Sigma)$ is called a measurable space, and the members of $\Sigma$ are called measurable sets.

A triple $(X,\Sigma ,\mu )$ is called a measure space. A probability measure is a measure with total measure one – that is, $\mu (X)=1$. A probability space is a measure space with a probability measure. 

