```
tags: non-math, top
```
# Definition

Water can flow smoothly or sourcely.

# Pirate

## Pirate Civilizations(Sea)

- Water can flow smoothly(only themselves), and kill all others(French, Spanish ships by English pirates).

- Lower level of civilization in the beginning of human.

- Nationalism or Extreme Nationalism. Prefer violence. Use A-bombs Firstly. Never regretful/Always hungry actually.

- Report Focus: Some countries oppose me. 

The examples: USA and English with 26 Letters.

The Bill of Rights vs Bartholomew Roberts: "A Merry and Short Life"

## Ascetic Civilizations(Mountain)

- Water can flow sourcely(for everyone), and control their people with morality or something.

- Higher level of civilization in the beginning of human.

- Civilized. There is a distinction between elegance and non elegance. Believe in the Mutual morality.

- Report Focus: Some countries like me.

The examples: (Iran), France, (Germany), China

ZhengHe even didn't build colony in the closest because they can not understand the elegance.

The UK can make a Malaysia. USA can make an Afghanistan, so on.

## Conclusions

Old civilizations usually use culture to influence, but modern civilizations use power actually.

Culture means we treat the other people as same as or better than us.

Power simply means the power(Connections, Criminal Groups, Languages, Races, Skin Colors, Money, A-bombs so on).

<!--
Portuguese, France are also masters of cultural genocide, we just see the Vietnam, but it's not like the UK, the top of tops.

At least VietNamese is a new language, if it's English place......, the Pirates.
-->

<!--
Not Serious:
For Public: Free Sea > Free/Autocratic Mountain > Autocratic Sea
For Personal: Free Sea > Autocratic Sea > Free/Autocratic Mountain

I only heard the math major in the communism society, never heard the business major.

Most of the chairmen have technical backgrounds, not politics, business, so on.

Business/Politics major > Chemistry/Geology
-->

In USA or some countries, the strangers may shoot you, may rape you, may kill you. With a per capita GDP four times that of China, there are people starving to death on the streets, which is impossible in any EA countries.

In the China, strangers are usually an excellent source and kind signal, Regardless of the skin color.

The glory of United States of America is built on the low caste cleansing. Just like the English with 26 Letters.